[THEME MUSIC]
>> REGINA MEREDITH: The sad fact
is that more than half of all
first marriages dissolve in the
harsh reality of our own lack
of understanding of what
it takes to make it work.
While we're chemically
wired to fall
in love, when those
chemicals wear off,
we're not as well
equipped to stay together.
Arielle Ford's new book, "Turn
Your Mate Into Your Soulmate,"
goes into the study of how
people who stay together do it.
So I guess we're going
to learn from them.
And you're becoming one of them.
>> ARIELLE FORD: I am.
>> REGINA: Late to the game,
everyone has their own time
and season, but nonetheless,
you're learning to make it
work.
>> FORD: Absolutely.
>> REGINA: Well, let's
start out with that part
of the conversation because
that's not how you were
naturally wired.
>> FORD: No, it was pretty
unpredictable that I'd be
sitting here in this chair
today talking to you about this
subject.
I was a first time bride at 44.
And I did not grow up in
a home with two people who
really loved each other.
I grew up with parents who
actually hated each other.
And I have no conscious
memory of them actually
ever holding hands, or
kissing, or being affectionate.
But when I got
married, what I quickly
discovered in sort of
a very shocking manner
was that I had no
partnership skills.
I was really, really
good at being the boss.
I was used to
running a business.
But I had no clue how
to be a good partner.
And I quickly
decided that I needed
to become a student
of love, that I
had manifested this awesome
soulmate, this incredible guy.
He exceeded my expectations.
And I was blowing it.
So that's sort of the
beginning of the story.
>> REGINA: Yes, and, you know,
we teach best what we need
to learn.
I mean, that's--
>> FORD: You teach what
you need to learn most.
And still, 18 years later,
I have learned a lot
and I have a lot of tools and
tricks in my emotional toolkit.
And, still, the
thing that I found
is that even understanding
certain issues
and knowing how to navigate
them doesn't make them go away.
It's a daily practice
of choosing to love--
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: And choosing
to be loving.
Because I was one of these
people, like lot of people,
I thought love was
just a feeling.
I thought, OK, well, when
I'm feeling love, that's
how I know that I'm in love.
And when you're married and
you've taken sacred vows
and you've made this commitment
to another human being ,
even if they're your soulmate,
there are days, weeks,
maybe months, when you don't
even like them very much.
And then you have to choose.
Love is a behavior.
Love is a commitment.
Love is a choice.
Love is a decision.
And it's work.
It really is work.
And I thought, oh,
I'm with my soulmate.
It must mean it's
going to be easy.
>> REGINA: Yeah, a
happily ever after.
>> FORD: Yeah, right?
Well, thank God for
happily even after.
>> REGINA: Yeah, that's true.
That's a good point.
And, you know, it's interesting.
I've looked around,
and throughout my life,
at people who seem to
naturally be adept at making
their relationship work.
And I actually
only seen a couple.
Honestly, if I'm being-- yeah,
if I am being honest, and I am,
I've only seen a couple people.
And one of them
is a woman who is
a former sister in law
of mine whose birthday is
February 14, Valentine's Day.
And this woman just has a
type of grace and enthusiasm
for life, where
she married someone
who was her polar opposite,
the ballerina cowboy syndrome
thing, and had six children.
And every day, still remains
a creative endeavor that she--
that she is solely responsible
for, in terms of being the glue
that family and
that love affair.
And it's still a love affair.
>> FORD: Yeah.
>> REGINA: But that's the only
person I've seen that's really
just known how to do it somehow.
>> FORD: It's rare.
I have a lot of friends that
are married to their soulmate
and they still have to
work at the relationship.
Because there's so
much that we come in--
and I really believe
soulmates come in together
with sacred contracts
to be together.
There's past life stuff,
and there's karma,
and there's choices that
we make in between lives.
OK, yeah, let's be soulmates
in this next lifetime and let's
set up these synchronicities
so we recognize each other.
And let's work out the fact
that in the three past lives
you betrayed me and we're
going to have betrayal issues
and we're going to have
so many kids together.
But we forget all that.
We meet them.
We fall in love.
We're in this euphoric state.
We're in what I call the
socially acceptable form
of insanity,
because the dopamine
and the adrenalin and the
oxytocin's all kicking off.
And it's great for
6 to 18 months,
until all the
chemistry goes away.
And, suddenly, this
person with which
you had such frequency
and synchronicity with
is just a real human being.
>> REGINA: Yeah, see, I've
always viewed that as the hook,
as the soul's hook.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: The means of drawing
people together for either
something very lovely,
creative, and pleasurable,
or for learning, which may
feel the opposite of that.
Both are equally as valuable,
but that chemical cascade
I do believe is a projection
from the soul to say tt-tt-tt,
don't go away.
>> FORD: It's nature's trick.
>> REGINA: Stay here.
It's a trick to keep
you together long enough
to establish some other bond so
that you can dig down and start
doing your thing together.
>> FORD: Exactly, yes.
>> REGINA: So it can be tricky.
Because, a lot of times, like
when you say the chemicals wear
off, it's what was I thinking.
Well, you weren't.
It wasn't your choice.
>> FORD: It had nothing to
do with rational thought.
>> REGINA: No, it didn't.
>> FORD: But it's an important
piece of it because soulmates
come together to heal each
other on the deepest level.
And as anybody interested
in personal growth knows,
the healing part sucks.
It doesn't feel good.
It's not fun.
It's often painful.
Harville Hendrix, who Oprah
calls the marriage whisperer,
he's one of the world's
leading marriage researchers.
And we were talking
about this one day
and I said to him,
Harville, how do
you know if you're in
the right relationship?
And he started laughing.
And when he stopped
laughing, he said
you know you're in
the right relationship
when it starts off as a dream
come true and eventually
devolves into your
worst nightmare.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
I think that's my
observation and my experience
as well, in that if you didn't
have that chemical cascade,
saying, oh, my god,
this is just amazing,
there is no incentive to
stick in with the situation.
>> FORD: Right.
And you're in that state.
Water tastes wetter.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: Air smells sweeter.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> FORD: Everything
feels so good.
And then it goes away.
And there's this
big disappointment.
Oh, does this mean I
don't love him anymore
or she doesn't love me anymore?
But the truth is all of those
chemicals are still there.
They're now covered
up with reality.
And the reason I wrote "Turn
Your Mate Into Your Soulmate"
was to show you how to
reignite those chemicals to get
those feelings back
and to reenvision
the relationship that you have.
Because as you
said in the intro,
everybody knows that 50% of
first marriages end in divorce.
What most people don't know is
that 64% of second marriages--
>> REGINA: And it's--
>> FORD: 73% of third
marriages end in divorce.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> FORD: So if you're looking
like the problem's over there,
that's not true.
Because the person who's in
all three marriages is you.
>> REGINA: And as
we'll discover later,
maybe it's not even a problem.
So let's start out with
your definition of soulmate.
Because that means different
things to do different people.
>> FORD: Yeah, it's true.
So my definition
of a soulmate is
that it's first and foremost
somebody you can completely
be yourself with,
somebody with whom
you share unconditional
love, and when
you look into their
eyes, you have
the experience of being home.
And if you accept
that definition,
then I want to expand
it even further.
Because we're
going to be talking
about romantic soulmates today,
but your kids, your parents,
your siblings, your co-workers,
your best friend, your cat,
your dog all are also soulmates
if they fit that definition.
And to take it even a
step further than that,
I would also say a
soulmate is somebody
that you feel emotionally
and physically safe with.
So if you're in a
relationship where there's
abuse, extreme addiction,
or really bad behavior,
I can't help you.
This is why God
invented therapists.
You need professionals.
But for anybody else
who's bored, disappointed,
frustrated, upset with
the mate that they have,
I promise you, if
you're willing to sit
with us for a little while
longer and take some baby
steps, it is-- it's definitely
possible to rediscover
the love, and the
passion, and the fun.
>> REGINA: OK, so this is
bringing a couple of questions
up.
One, we tend to-- we tend
to circulate within a given
incarnation with a soul tribe.
So any time we run into the
member of that soul tribe,
it has that soulmate
kind of feeling.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: Whether it's a
family member, friend, lover,
or whatnot.
>> FORD: The recognition.
>> REGINA: The recognition.
So that-- by virtue
of that alone,
we're falling into karmic
patterns, incarnation patterns.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: So that's
where that recogniz--
so when people have that
instant recognition,
you can pretty much guess you
have been traveling together
before.
>> FORD: But the mistake a lot
of people make is they feel
that connection,
that recognition.
And if it's a-- if
there's chemistry
and there's some
sexuality there,
they leap to the conclusion, oh,
this must be my life partner.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
And that is not
necessarily true.
>> FORD: Right.
Because in order to have a
sustainable happy marriage,
you need more than
the recognition,
more than the chemistry.
You need communication,
connection, compatibility,
and, most importantly, a
shared vision for the future.
If you're somebody like me
who loves to travel the world
and wants exotic travel,
and I fall in love with you
and you're an
agoraphobic, we are not
going to be happy together.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: So this is why it's so
important that you could lock
eyes across a crowded
room, you are the one.
But don't get married tomorrow.
Spend a good solid year dating
and getting to know them.
And are they your
lifelong partner?
Do they have that potential?
>> REGINA: And whatever it is
between you may well be cleared
within that year.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: Acknowledged and
cleared within that year.
You don't have to go
through a marriage
to figure that one
out necessarily.
>> FORD: Exactly.
Because, sometimes,
it's just you
come together for a reason,
or a season, or a lifetime.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about
another situation that I think
probably everybody watching,
most people, at least,
have had happen, where you're
somewhere and you meet a total
stranger for about 15 minutes.
And it's like you know
everything about that person.
There's absolute unconditional
love there, everything,
but it's really nothing more
than just a passing moment.
>> FORD: It is.
And that's what it is.
And sometimes we
have to accept it.
And yet people will spend
years pining for it.
Oh, I met him, but he got on
the train and he got away.
>> REGINA: I think there's
a James Blunt song.
I think it was James
Blunt, about that.
>> FORD: Yeah.
And the truth is that's
because we live with the myth
that we each only get one
big love in a lifetime.
>> REGINA: And we're
going to go into that.
Now, let's go back
to you and Brian.
So you're 44 years old.
You have no template for what
a relationship even looks like.
>> FORD: Right.
>> REGINA: Chemicals
are cascading.
You're having a lot of
fun, happily ever after,
and then the reality sets in.
How did this all work for you?
How did it start-- how did the
disappointment start showing up
for you and Brian?
>> FORD: Well, I started to
notice that very often he was
saying to me you are
not listening to me.
And my immediate reaction
was to get defensive and then
parrot back to him whatever
it was he just said.
>> REGINA: To show
you're smart--
>> FORD: To prove--
>> REGINA: And now
you've proven it.
>> FORD: Right.
But the truth was, and I
knew what the truth was,
is I have a tendency to drift.
I am an oldest child.
I am a terrible listener.
My life is all about me
and what's in it for me.
Brian, on the other hand,
is the youngest child,
whose deepest core need is to be
seen and heard and listened to.
And he's used to getting that
from everybody around him.
So we were perfect together.
Both of our childhood
issues were knocking up
against each other.
But I didn't understand
it at the time.
I was just like what's
the matter with him.
Yeah, he just said A, B, and
C. So that was the first thing.
And it was really
uncomfortable because I
was hearing a tone in his
voice and seeing body language
that I hadn't seen
18 months previously.
And I was disappointing him.
And the last thing I wanted
to do was disappoint him.
And then another thing happened
that in retrospect is very
funny now, but at
the time, wasn't.
One day, I caught myself
like this in front of him.
>> REGINA: Oops.
>> FORD: And I don't remember
what I was ragging on him
about, but I saw myself like
this and I immediately stopped.
And I was embarrassed.
And I said to him the
next time this happens,
and, unfortunately,
there's going
to be a next time,
could you just kindly,
sweetly, gently say to me, "when
did Sheila enter the room?"
Now, Sheila's my mother's
name, and I adore my mother.
She's very cool.
But she can be very bossy
and overbearing, as can I.
And he was so cool about it.
He totally got it.
He said yes.
And the next time
I'm too patronizing,
you can call me Wayne.
That was his dad's name, right?
So very quickly we
eliminated the possibility
of World War III because
we had these code names.
And even to this day,
occasionally, he'll
say, oh, I can see
Sheila just walked in.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: So that helps.
But I had been used
to running a business.
I was used to being the boss.
And I didn't know how unsexy
being the boss in a marriage
was.
I had no clue.
I was living in my
masculine energy.
I loved being in my
And I didn't know that when
you marry an alpha male,
you can't have two men
in the relationship
if you're ever going
to really get along.
>> REGINA: This is a big
problem in the west right now.
>> FORD: Huge.
>> REGINA: Because women have
been on their own a long time
paying the bills.
>> FORD: Right.
And I didn't know.
I had studied Dr. Pat Allen.
I knew about masculine
and feminine energy,
but somehow I didn't
think it applied to me.
And I realized that
what I needed to do
was that it was fine
when I'm running
my business all day long.
I can be the boss.
But when I get home, I needed
to create a system to drop back
into my feminine energy.
So I would come home and
I would take a bubble bath
or I would do some belly dancing
or I'd listen some music.
And then I would put--
put on fresh makeup.
And I would actually downshift
back into my feminine energy.
That's what I needed
to do now for Brian.
We had a business together.
So we'd go out to dinner.
And at 8 o'clock at night, he'd
start talking contracts to me.
And I like to say to
him, no, no, no, we
can't talk business now.
I just spent an hour getting
out of my male energy head.
And as interesting
as you are, we can't.
And so we had to negotiate
that and it took about a year
until we finally
got into a pattern
where we could understand that
what we needed was polarity.
And we could shift
back and forth
because he's very comfortable
in his feminine energy.
But that took time.
So it was learning
the stuff that I
didn't know that I didn't
know was a process.
>> REGINA: But, clearly, the
incentive was there for you
to have this one work.
>> FORD: Well, not only that,
I quickly realized that if I
didn't learn to listen to him,
he would need to find somebody
who would.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: And to
this day, I mean,
we're together now
almost 19 years,
there are still moments when
I have to remind myself, oh,
you need to pay attention,
which means turning towards him,
putting my phone
away, listening,
even if it's not all
that interesting.
Now, most of the time,
he's pretty fascinating.
But there are moments where the
thoughts going through my head
is like, oh, I really
need to check my email.
But what is my commitment?
My commitment is to be loving.
And what's the most loving
thing I can do in this moment?
Give him my full attention.
Because what it's more
important than him?
>> REGINA: OK, so now, from that
platform, I'm a good listener.
I can be a good listener.
I have to for a living, right?
But in personal relationship,
it's a little bit different
because, yes, I
can hear the words,
but now your own programs are
running in terms of how you're
interpreting these words.
So you may think you're giving
your full attention to someone,
and I've done the
same thing you have,
Ms. Smarty Pants, you
know, playing back.
I heard everything you
said, blah, blah, blah.
You want to hear what
you said before that?
Blah, blah, blah, you know, kind
of like if I were sitting here.
>> FORD: Right.
>> REGINA: And that
does no good at all.
Because, in essence,
what you're doing
at that point in terms of
not only being defensive,
but this is a really
big one between couples,
you're really
trying to be right.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: Let's talk about
what happens when either one
of the people has to be right.
>> FORD: Sometimes you
have to make a choice.
Do you want to be right or
do you want to be loved?
And often, for me,
in that situation,
it means I have to
keep my mouth shut.
>> REGINA: And you
like being right.
>> FORD: I love being right.
Of course.
I grew up in a home
where being right
was really the highest
value, like, really,
if you were right about
something, that was a big deal.
And I had to really
understand that being right
often means making
somebody else wrong.
And if we're going to win
together in a relationship,
then we both need to win.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
And that's a tough one
because this affects, I think,
most people.
>> FORD: Yeah.
>> REGINA: Most people want to
think they can walk away from
whatever the situation
is with a little dignity,
feeling like they
weren't a total idiot.
So anyway, I wanted to
bring that up because I
know that is-- that's
a big point that you
made in your book, is
the need to be right.
Let's talk about-- let's
go back for a moment
to-- give us a little bit of
the more technical definitions
of these chemical cascades
and the phases we go through,
so people can see themselves
and their relationships in that.
>> FORD: You know,
Dr. Helen Fisher,
who's one of the leading
researchers and anthropologists
on love, has sort of outlined
the whole phases of where you
have this infatuation,
and then you go into lust.
And then that's when all
the chemicals are going off.
And then, eventually,
you go into reality.
But what she's
been able to do is
she can take people and put
them in a CAT scan machine
and ask them questions
about their relationship.
And by looking at the CAT
scan, tell you whether or not
you're still in love, because
different parts of the brain
will light up.
The thing about that is that you
could be in the CAT scan today
and not be in love, but
she could retest you
in three months and you
could be in love again.
So that's why we can't trust our
feelings when it comes to love.
Somebody asked me
the other day, well,
how do I know if he loves me?
And I said, well, I can only
speak from my point of view,
how I know Brian loves me.
I know he loves me because
when I injure myself,
and I'm a klutz,
it happens often,
I can see the
concern in his eyes.
And he'll ask me
right away are you OK.
And he'll come and help me
off the floor or whatever
crazy thing that I've done.
Or if I'm having-- if I'm losing
it, which I do on occasion,
completely melt down and
lose it, he'll sit me down
and he'll hold my hands.
And he'll remind
me what I teach.
Oh, everything already is OK.
The problem's
already been solved.
We're in this together.
We're going to figure
this out together.
>> REGINA: That's a very
generous, loving gesture.
>> FORD: Exactly.
Now, for other
people, they don't
feel loved unless
they're getting
roses and candy and cards,
which is why I love that book,
"The Five Love Languages."
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: Because everybody--
>> REGINA: Shows it differently.
>> FORD: Differently.
Like, for me, if you are being
affectionate and touching me,
that's how I feel love.
I have other friends
that need gifts.
For Brian, it's acts of
service and affection.
>> REGINA: So it's a good fit.
>> FORD: Yeah, there's a
guy named Dr. Gary Chapman.
He wrote this great book,
"The Five Love Languages."
I highly recommend anybody
in any kind of relationship
read this book.
It's awesome.
>> REGINA: And we look at
the difference between male
and female and what we
need from each other,
and one of the points you make
in your book is that men tend
to, and these are
blanket statements,
but tend to value being
respected by the woman even
more than being
loved by the woman.
Let's talk about that.
>> FORD: Yes, actually, men
crave respect more than sex.
And most women don't know that.
>> REGINA: No.
>> FORD: They need respect
and they need appreciation.
And I had a really
funny conversation
with my hairdresser
the other day.
Because he was--
he's doing my hair
and I'm going off on book tour
and I tell him about the book.
And I know that he's divorced.
And I said to him why
did you get divorced?
He said car keys.
It's like what.
Really, he said my wife and I
started this salon together,
but she used to leave before me.
And three out of seven days,
she would take my car keys
with her, which meant that I
had to be at the salon an hour
longer than necessary while she
brought me back my car keys.
And she would never
apologize, and she never
realized how
inconsiderate she was.
So, honestly, we got
divorced over car keys.
So then I said to him
tell me about the best
day of your marriage.
And he lights up, and he said
I can tell you every detail.
He goes we were three years
into having our business open.
We were driving on the 8.
We were near the Clairmont exit.
And she turned to
me and she said,
Tom, I am so proud of you.
You've done such a great job of
making our business a success.
And you are such a good dad.
And I know I don't say it often
enough, but I really love you.
And I said, OK, tell me about
the worst day of your marriage.
He said I remember
like it was yesterday.
We were driving down the 8, we
were in the exact same spot.
We were near the Clairmont
exit, and the recession
had just started.
And our business was failing.
And she was screaming
at me telling me
what an idiot I was that I
couldn't fix the business
in the middle of the recession.
And that was the
end of our marriage.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
>> FORD: And I thought
what a telling story.
The thing he remembers
and values most
was the love and appreciation
and acknowledgement.
And the thing that
killed the marriage
was the lack of respect.
>> REGINA: Yes.
Yes.
>> FORD: Because
men need to win.
And we need to set
them up to win.
And I-- and here's the thing
a lot of people don't know.
A man can't be happy
unless his woman's happy.
And I can hear the
women in the audience
saying but I tell them all the
time what I need to be happy.
And my answer to them is,
yes, and your shaming,
and blaming, screaming,
yelling, bitching, moaning.
And when you do that,
he's not listening.
He can't hear you.
You become mommy,
and he tunes you out.
But there is a way to get all
your needs and desires met,
but it requires a really
sweet tone of voice.
And you have to tell him what
it's going to provide for him.
So I have an example.
I have a story to share
about why this really work.
So I can't tell you
how many women tell me
the thing that drives them
nutty about their husband
is that they have
to constantly remind
them to take the trash out.
So here's how you get them
to take the trash out.
The next time he does
take the trash out,
even if you have to remind him,
when he walks back in the door,
walk over to him,
give him a big hug,
and then whisper in his
ear you are my hero.
I am so grateful to
you for taking out
that stinky, smelly trash.
I can't stand touching it.
You have no idea
what it does for me
and how sexy it is when
you take the trash out.
If you do that, he's
never ever going
to forget to take
the trash out again.
He just had this big win.
Now, the opposite to
that, the way women end up
really having men
lose all the time,
and this may come
as a surprise, is
that any time you put yourself
down to your guy, he's losing.
Why?
Because he chose you.
And if you're--
>> REGINA: That
diminishes both of you.
>> FORD: Yeah.
And you know, I've
got too many wrinkles.
I've got cellulite.
I need to lose 50 pounds.
And any way that you're making
yourself smaller, he's losing.
>> REGINA: Yeah,
that makes sense.
In fact, I did this little
pilot show on men and love.
And it was myself guiding
the panel of three men,
of different age groups.
One was from Europe, the
other two were American.
And what was interesting was
at the very end of the program,
I said what I think I'm hearing
here is that, in the end,
you-- it sounds like you need
women more than we need you.
And they were all say-- they
said almost simultaneously yes.
We're here to serve you.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: And no one, I mean,
starting the conversation, A,
I wouldn't have suspected that.
And, again, this goes back
into the archetypal energy
of being the hero,
needing to be the hero,
or you wouldn't
incarnate as male.
>> FORD: Right.
>> REGINA: Incarnate as a
female, if you don't need that.
And so, looking
along these lines,
if we're constantly
making someone wrong
and diminishing
ourselves, that takes away
the potential to be
the hero, which is
a very natural state of being.
>> FORD: Yeah, and the other
thing that a lot of women do is
they give too much, and
they don't raise the bar
for the guy.
>> REGINA: OK, let's
talk about that.
I tend to be kind of more in
that category of just flowing
energy out and being an enabler.
Oh, don't worry,
sweetie, it was tough.
Don't be so hard on yourself.
Wrong.
>> FORD: No, they--
they want to win.
They want to prove themselves.
So you got to raise
the bar for them.
What could they do for you?
You know, and let them know.
And then, like I said,
it's the tone of voice
and it's the way
that you say it.
And you only want to make
one request at a time.
One, or one question at a time.
>> REGINA: Don't lay
down a manifesto.
>> FORD: Right/
We can multitask.
We can handle multiple
things at a time.
They can not.
Their brains are
wired differently.
So if you have a question, ask
one question and then shut up
and give them all the time they
need to answer the question.
Or if you have a request,
make one very clear request
that they can think
about and answer.
Or you can tell them.
You don't have to
tell me right now.
You could tell me
in a couple of days.
But I'm really thinking it might
be fun next weakened that we
go skiing up in snow mass.
>> REGINA: But don't overwhelm
someone with your list.
>> FORD: Right.
>> REGINA: And no less
in a nasty tone of voice
or a blaming tone of voice.
It's going to kill
the relationship.
So I think we've got that part.
Now, you also say that a woman
cannot expect a man to know
what her needs are, just
intuit what her needs are.
He's focused on what he's doing.
>> FORD: Right.
>> REGINA: And you talk about
a woman named Elizabeth who was
proactive and wrote
her own user's manual,
which I think is
a brilliant idea.
>> FORD: Yeah.
Because for her, love meant
getting lots of little cards,
and flowers, and candies.
And even though her husband
told her all the time
that he loved her, she
needed this demonstration.
So she eventually
wrote, you know,
the owner's manual for Elizabeth
on how to make her happy.
And then she said
very specifically put
in there what kind of flower
she wanted, what kind of candy.
>> REGINA: This was
super proactive.
>> FORD: So that-- because he
did want to make her happy,
but how would he know that
tulips were her favorite,
and that she particularly
liked red and purple tulips,
or whatever it was.
So she got very specific.
So I think that's a great idea.
>> REGINA: And what about in the
notion of the beginning of what
looks like it could be a-- I
don't like the word serious--
but a lasting relationship.
What if everybody
was proactive enough
to say-- to present
the other one with,
as you say, like
a user's manual,
saying this is where
I really trip up,
and this is what
hurts my feelings.
This is what makes
me feel great.
And so you had the advantage
of that knowledge--
>> FORD: Well, I actually wrote
that book and I give it away
for free as a bonus package.
If you buy this book and you
go to MatetoSoulmate.com,
you can download "The
Everything Book."
And "The Everything
Book" is a fill
in the blank book for couples
to fill out and exchange,
so you have all
this information.
>> REGINA: I think
it's a great idea,
to instead of just shooting
in the dark and each hoping
the other one perceives
things correctly.
It's a crap shoot that way.
And we're all filtering
the information
through our own lens
of experience, which
you can say one
thing, but you're
interpreting-- you're
interpreting what they're
saying totally differently.
So it's very confusing.
>> FORD: It can be.
>> REGINA: In the beginning.
>> FORD: But that's sort of
the point and the purpose
of the whole thing.
So Harville Hendrix believes
that we have a built in mate
selector and that
it's not random
that we run into our
soulmate, that we actually
pick the perfect person for us
who's going to have the owner's
manual to all the buttons
to all our childhood
wounds, to bring them up, so
we can become whole and healed.
And he says that's the
real purpose of marriage,
that it's absolutely normal.
And yet, we live
like, oh, when there's
bumps in the road
in the relationship,
that something's wrong.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: When the
reality is, it's normal.
>> REGINA: Right.
Let's talk about
Jill Mangino's story.
Because we're going
to talk-- I love
learning by way of example.
And I thought that was
just a fascinating story.
She's a lovely lady.
>> FORD: Yeah.
So Jill's a good friend of mine.
And she had many
long-term relationships
with guys that
were just like her.
They wore organic
cotton clothing,
and they did yoga every
day, and juice fasts,
and they were vegans.
And they were very
difficult relationships
and never made her happy.
Finally, she moved back to
her hometown in New Jersey.
She went to her 20 year
high school reunion.
She ran into her high
school boyfriend, Ray.
And they started dating.
And then they fell in love, and
then they moved in together,
and then he proposed,
and she took the ring.
So every time I
would talk to her
I would say when's the wedding?
And for the first four,
years she would say, oh,
I'm just too busy.
We haven't planned it yet.
There's no rush.
>> REGINA: Well, let's
talk about Ray's reality
and personality.
>> FORD: I'm going to get there.
Absolutely.
>> REGINA: All right.
>> FORD: After the fourth
year, I said to her tell me
what's really going on.
You can't tell me you've
been so busy for four years
that you couldn't
plan a wedding.
She said Ray's not
spiritual enough.
I said, well, what
do you mean by that.
She said, well, you know, I'm a
vegan chanting yoga green juice
fasting kind of girl.
Yes, I know all about you.
Well, what you
don't know about Ray
is that he repairs
motorcycles for a living.
He smokes cigarettes.
He smokes pot.
He's a meat eater.
He actually hunts all the time.
And he doesn't
meditate, and he doesn't
read Deepak Chopra books.
And it's just not a good fit.
Well, eventually, she
broke up with him.
But because the
recession had hit,
they were still living together.
They couldn't
afford to move out.
And at one point, she
got very, very sick.
And he took very,
very good care of her.
And after she got better,
she was in the kitchen
one morning making her chia
seed gruel with almond milk
that she does, and he walks
in through the back door
with a bunch of dead
turkeys, and his hunting
dog, and his rifle,
and his camo wear.
And she says to him, oh,
hi, how was your morning.
And he said to her,
oh, it was beautiful.
I was walking through the
forest as the sun was filtering
through the leaves, and I
could hear the leaves crunching
under my boots.
And it was just a really
magnificent, divine morning.
And Jill's thinking
to yourself, wow, that
even sounds kind of spiritual.
And then she forgot about it.
And then later that day,
he came home from work.
And he was in tears.
She's like what's the matter.
And he said Bob died.
Bob was his boss, the owner
of the motorcycle repair shop.
And he was really
upset about it.
And he said the
funeral's in two days.
And he goes you know how
socially phobic I can be.
Will you go with me?
And she said, yes, of course,
I'll go to the funeral.
So they go to the funeral.
There's 300 people
there, mostly bikers
in leather jackets, that crowd.
And the minister gives a eulogy.
And when he's done,
he says, is there
anybody who would like
to come up and say
a few words about Bob?
Nobody room-- nobody
moves, dead silence.
And all of a
sudden, Ray gets up,
socially phobic Ray gets up,
walks to the front of the room,
and he starts talking about
what a good man Bob was,
what a good father, a good
husband, a good community
citizen, what a good
boss, what a good friend.
And Jill starts to cry.
And she falls in love
with Ray all over again.
And she realizes
that she has been
the spiritually arrogant one,
that she's been judging him
by this criteria,
when, in fact, here
is this open-hearted generous
man who's been treating her
like a queen for years
and she's been judging him
because he hunts, and he
smokes, and he rides bikes,
and he doesn't do juice fasts.
So they are now very
happily married.
And I'm so glad to
report that when
I ask Jill the other day who's
your guru, she said to me
Ray's my guru.
>> REGINA: I love it.
And, you know, this
brings up a good point.
Ever since the addition of
new age culture to society,
it seems to have almost
created a greater divide.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: It hasn't done
what it was supposed to do,
which is to create
bridges to one another.
It's created a tremendous
amount of spiritual arrogance.
>> FORD: And judgment.
>> REGINA: And judgment.
>> FORD: And the truth is
men experience and express
spirituality
differently than we do.
So we may want to sit in the
Mile High Church or the Unity
Church and read certain books.
And if your guy is
coaching Little League
in volunteering at Big Brothers
and helping your mother get
in and out of the
car, and just being
an all around good
human being, what could
be more spiritual than that?
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> FORD: And yet, when
I talk to single women,
the first thing they say is, oh,
well, I want a spiritual guy.
>> REGINA: I've
heard this so often.
And most of those people
actually are alone.
>> FORD: Yes.
They're alone with
their conversations
with God books, and their
workbooks, and their practices,
and their chanting.
I had this conversation
with Elizabeth Gilbert,
who wrote "Eat, Pray, Love."
And I said to her what do you
love most about your husband.
And she said, well,
my history was
to be with guys who would go
to meditation retreats with me.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: She said but my husband
is never going to do yoga.
He's never going to meditate.
He's certainly never
doing a green juice fast.
But when I walk into
a room, his eyes
light up like it's
Christmas morning.
And he takes me by the hand
and leads me into the kitchen.
And he puts my feet up and
he hands me a glass of wine
and then he cooks me dinner.
>> REGINA: That's divine, right?
>> FORD: And she's happy.
And she understands that she
is a meditating, chanting,
green juice fasting
kind of girl.
And he is not.
But he loves her.
He's devoted to her.
He's crazy about her.
And who wouldn't want that?
And yet, by most people
standards, is he spiritual?
Well, yes, in his own way,
because he puts all that love
in the food which he feeds
to her to nourish her body
and soul.
>> REGINA: I'm to the point
where I can barely stand
to hear that word anymore.
Are you a spiritual person?
Well, you're alive.
You're walking on the planet.
You have passions and loves.
Yes, we don't need to
be asking that question.
But to define it so narrowly,
to, as you say, chanting,
and yoga, and green
juice fasting,
is really-- I'm
finding it quite trite.
>> FORD: Well, and
what I've noticed,
and what the people
who do all that,
what they don't understand is
if you're sitting in judgment
of somebody else, if you're
having toxic thoughts,
that is canceling out--
>> REGINA: You bet.
>> FORD: All the vegan
food, and the chanting,
and the yoga that you're doing.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> FORD: It's better to sit
there and eat a pound of bacon
every day and have
loving kindness thoughts
for the world.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: And yet we live like,
no, I'm going to live a nice,
long life if only
I do X, Y, and Z.
>> REGINA: So we need a new
view of that, a reality check.
We've gone too far
one way and now we
have to go back and find
this point of equilibrium
where we really are a bridge.
>> FORD: And what's
right for you.
>> REGINA: That's right.
>> FORD: You know, being a
vegan may be right for you.
>> REGINA: Exactly,
nothing wrong with that.
>> FORD: It's not right for me.
I've tried it,
doesn't work for me.
>> REGINA: Well, I did try it
and I almost died, you know.
I mean, I was a
vegetarian for 20 years
and started having lot
of health problems.
And I was very judgmental
about meat eating and all that.
And then I go back to becoming
essentially a carnivore
to support my own health again.
I'm embarrassed
initially, but then I
realized how arrogant I was.
And I was doing it only for
my own spiritual reasons.
I wasn't even doing
it for my health.
And I've been every which
way around the circle
on this journey.
And I see my own
arrogance in times past,
and even today, in certain ways.
And I think we've got to
start loving one another.
>> FORD: And ourselves.
>> REGINA: And ourselves.
And quit trying to be
this idealized version
of a spiritual being.
>> FORD: Right.
>> REGINA: Yeah.
So now let's go to past lives.
How do you-- how
do you define it
when someone has
recognized someone
from a past life scenario?
>> FORD: Well, I-- I believe
that the past, the present,
and the future are all
happening right now.
So we can talk about
it as a past life,
but it's really more
like a parallel life.
But as we talked about
earlier, we have a tribe
and we have recognition when
we connect with our tribe.
And I do believe
when we're planning
to hook up in a particular
lifetime with a soulmate
that we go to a place that
they call recognition school
and we plan out the coincidences
and the synchronicities,
so that we can
recognize each other.
We can fall into nature's
trick and be crazy in love
and see this.
So that we can get
together and grow and heal
each other as a couple.
So I think that's an
important piece of it.
And you do not have to
believe in any of this
to manifest a soulmate.
>> REGINA: Right.
Absolutely.
>> FORD: It's just
my personal belief.
>> REGINA: OK.
Now, I want to-- I was going
to have you tell me-- tell us
about Donna Eden
and her mate, but I
want to get into some of
the more functional aspects
of this.
If we have time, we'll
go back to Donna.
Because what she and her
husband David represented
is irreconcilable differences.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: And there are many
reasons people come together.
Sometimes they come together
to create or produce something,
whether it's a child,
whether it's a pottery shop,
and spiritual school, whatever.
They're here for
purpose together.
It doesn't mean it's going
to be the easiest ride.
>> FORD: Well, there's
a guy named Dr.
John Gottman who's a marriage
researcher at the University
of Washington.
And he's just a total genius.
He's actually-- he can observe
any couple for 15 minutes
and tell you within 93%
accuracy whether or not they'll
be divorced in three years.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: And what his studies
have found is that every
couple, not just some,
but every couple,
has a minimum of nine
irreconcilable differences.
These are things on
which you are never
ever going to agree on.
So knowing that, then
how do you co-exist?
With respect, and love, and
appreciation for each other,
and learning how to
communicate well,
and learning how to create what
he calls creative solutions.
So one example of that, also
came from Harville Hendrix,
because we were having
this conversation one day.
And I said, well,
creative solutions,
that sounds like a good idea.
Give me a concrete example.
He said I've got one for you.
He said my idea
of the perfect day
is to get behind the
wheel of a vehicle
and then drive for
eight or nine hours.
Helen, his wife and partner,
her idea of a perfect day
is to stay home and do
needle point or knitting.
Now, these are two
very different things.
I said, well, how did
you solve that one.
And he started to laugh and
he said we bought an RV.
I'm always driving and
she's always home, knitting.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: So it
requires some effort.
>> REGINA: That's
creative, that's good.
>> FORD: And it's
not a compromise.
>> REGINA: No.
>> FORD: I don't
like compromise,
because you both
lose in a compromise.
But there are ways
for everybody to win.
And sometimes, it's
simple as learning
to grow a generous heart.
So I've always-- I hate
to use the word hated,
but hated sports on TV.
That was like a thing I
never ever wanted to do.
In fact, it was part of my
whole deal breaker thing.
I was not going to marry a guy
who watched football on TV.
So I marry a former
basketball player.
I didn't know about basketball.
Now, he loves basketball.
His whole family
loves basketball.
I never even knew
what basketball was.
But I thought, you
know, this has been
a big part of his entire life.
Maybe I could just watch
the last quarter of a game
with him when it's
important to him.
And so I started to do that.
And I still didn't like it
and I still didn't get it.
Until, one day, I'm watching
the last quarter of a game,
and I notice that
this really short guy
is making all the points.
And I said to Brian
who's that short guy.
He said, oh, that's
Avery Johnson.
He's one of the best
players in the NBA.
And then the light
bulb went off and I
thought I'm going to always
cheer for the shortest
guy on any team.
And that's how I got
skin in the game.
And that's how I learned
to love basketball.
Because it was important to him.
Now, for Brian,
he's a movie buff.
He loves movies.
And he likes really serious,
intellectual movies.
My favorite movie of all
time is "Legally Blonde."
I like a stupid, funny movies.
So he grew a generous
heart by always taking me
to any movie I want to go
to, even though he'd never
go alone to see "Beverly Hills
Chihuahua," another favorite
of mine.
But that's what you do.
You learn to love what
your beloved loves.
>> REGINA: Right.
Let's talk about some of
the-- some of the-- this
is Dr. Gottman, again,
kind of deal killers,
and that is criticism,
contempt, defensiveness,
and stonewalling.
>> FORD: Yes, he calls
them the four horsemen
of the apocalypse.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: So when he's
observing a couple,
one of the things he looks
for, if either party is rolling
their eyes, that is
a sign of contempt.
>> REGINA: Yes.
That's very disrespectful.
>> FORD: And that the
marriage isn't going to work.
So if somebody--
if your partner's
being super defensive or
they're stonewalling you
and they're refusing
to engage, that's
when you know you
need to go to therapy.
Reading a book is not
going to fix this.
You need to be with
a professional who
can guide you through it.
You know, on the
other piece of it,
one of-- another piece of
Gottman's amazing research
is that he noticed the
couples that do really
well always practice
what he calls bidding.
So when you turn your
body towards your partner
and you look them in the
eyes, you are bidding them.
You are putting your presence
and attention on them.
And they know it and
they can feel it.
And another thing I
just learned yesterday
is that as you're
doing this, if you're
looking into their
left eye, then you're
connecting on the heart level.
So anytime you want to have
a really deep conversation
with anybody, gaze
into their left eye.
>> REGINA: OK,
thank you for that.
And I have read that before,
very interesting and useful.
Also, another thing
along that line, and then
I went to get into the
rebuilding, and the oxytocin
development, and all
that, after the love
seems to have gone,
Harville Hendrix,
he termed criticism as an
actual act of violence.
>> FORD: Yes.
>> REGINA: And let's
talk about that.
Because people think
it's natural to be bitchy
or hurl a little something
at someone, which
I find personally devastating.
>> FORD: Yeah.
Harville says that
there's no such thing
as constructive criticism,
that all criticism is
a form of violence.
And he requires his
students to take a vow
to be not critical with each
other, to be not judgmental.
Now, of course, we have to have
serious difficult conversations
at some point.
And so there's lots of little
tips on how to do this.
The first one is you want to get
yourself to a place of neutral.
You don't want to go in
bashing somebody's brains out.
So get yourself to neutral,
however you need to do that.
And then ask your partner,
you know, I have a problem.
There's something that's
really bothering me.
I need your help with it.
When could I have 10
minutes of your time?
So you're not saying
we need to talk.
>> REGINA: Because that's--
everyone's frightened when
those words come out.
>> FORD: That's like the doctor
saying to you you have cancer.
>> REGINA: Exactly.
>> FORD: So you never go
in there, we have to talk.
That is not going to-- you're
not going to win there.
So you just gently, kindly
say I have a problem.
I need your help with it.
When can I have 10 minutes?
Then when you get
the 10 minutes,
you need to know the first
three minutes are critical.
That will set the tone
for the rest of the time.
So you want to start by
saying I just really want
to acknowledge how hard
you've been working
to take care of the family.
And I was just over
the moon yesterday
when you were helping little
Johnny with this homework.
And thanks so much for
taking my mom to the doctor.
You have no idea how
much that means to me
and I probably don't
tell you often enough
how much I love you.
>> REGINA: However, there
are a couple things that--
>> FORD: And here's what
happened last night when we
were at the party
with Bob and Joan.
And I know you would never, ever
deliberately hurt my feelings
or humiliate me.
But when you said X, Y, and
Z, I really felt A, B, and C.
And I'm sure it
wasn't on purpose.
Now, that's an opening for
an apology or a response,
as opposed to you stupid--
>> REGINA: It's
not an indictment.
>> FORD: Right.
And that's how we need
to talk with each other.
Because nobody wakes up
in the morning thinking,
wow, how could I
ruin Regina's day.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: What could I do
today to really piss her off.
And yet we live like people
are hurting us on purpose.
>> REGINA: That's true.
>> FORD: And they're not.
They're just like us.
They want to be loved
for who they are.
They want to be accepted.
They want to be acknowledged.
And yet we are like these
heat seeking missiles--
>> REGINA: We create
enemy camps almost.
>> FORD: Right.
You did this is me.
And maybe they did, but
they didn't mean to do it,
unless they're a psychopath.
In which case, you
know, call a lawyer.
>> REGINA: We need to get going.
Yeah, exactly.
And another thing is,
in partnership, people
tend to give what it is--
and I've seen this a lot--
they tend to give what it
is they want or needed,
instead of giving what the
other person wants or needs.
And it takes time
to decipher this
and have that conversation.
>> FORD: Yeah, and it can
be an easy conversation.
Let's say your
birthday is coming up.
It's like I know you haven't
forgotten that my birthday is
coming up and you probably
have ideas of what you want
to get me, but just in case
you don't have any ideas,
I actually was at the mall the
other day at X, Y, Z store.
And there's this white
dress in a size 10
called the Tahari
something something.
So just in case, you could
drop-- you can plants seeds.
But you do it with a sense of
humor and light-heartedness.
>> REGINA: But when
it goes the other way,
such as I remember one
situation, for a birthday,
where my partner was really big
into playing rugby and gave me
a rugby t-shirt
from a tournament,
as a birthday present.
And I thought I
don't wear t-shirts.
I'm not into rugby.
I thanked him for it,
but I thought we're not
on the same page here at all.
I mean why would he
think that I would
want to wear a rugby t-shirt.
>> FORD: Well, maybe because his
fantasy that he didn't express
was that you'd wear
it with nothing else.
>> REGINA: Maybe there wasn't
any other requests along with
it, so to speak.
But, nonetheless, I
thought, huh, that's odd.
>> FORD: And you could also--
>> REGINA: I thanked
him, but I thought--
>> FORD: Put the t-shirt on
with some high heels and nothing
else and say you know what this
rugby t-shirt would look really
good with?
A diamond tennis
bracelet from Tiffany's.
>> REGINA: See, there you go.
I wasn't present
enough to do that.
I just said, oh, well,
thank you, Eddie.
Thank you.
>> FORD: Yeah, he just
didn't know any better.
So if you had "The
Everything Book,"
he would have known better.
>> REGINA: That's
what I'm saying.
>> FORD: He would have known
what sizes to get and where
to shop.
>> REGINA: Yeah, or just the
kindnesses that you appreciate
in life in general.
And the same thing,
I mean, we're
as lost on the other side
of knowing how to fulfill
someone else's desire.
So I love the idea
of the user's manual,
the-- what do you call it? "The
Everything Book," that's great.
OK, now, another
thing is listening.
As you say, this is so critical
because we may be listening,
but we're not actually
hearing what they're saying.
And so this listening technique
is listen, mirror, summarize,
validate.
>> FORD: Yeah.
>> REGINA: So share that one.
>> FORD: It's actually
called the Imago Dialogue,
which Harville Hendrix created.
So it's on page 255 in the book.
I actually give
you scripts on how
to have these conversations.
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: But so if you and I--
let's-- give me a complaint.
Pretend we're married and you're
going to give me a complaint.
>> REGINA: You leave the
toilet seat up all the time.
>> FORD: OK, so what I heard you
say is that you're unhappy that
I always leave the
toilet seat up.
Is that right?
>> REGINA: Yes.
>> FORD: Is there
any-- is there more?
>> REGINA: No, it's just that
I'm the one that has to end up
cleaning up the toilet seat.
And so it's icky and I don't--
I don't enjoy doing that.
>> FORD: OK, so--
so I understand.
I leave the toilet seat up and
that just creates more work
for you, right?
Did I get that right?
>> REGINA: That's right.
>> FORD: OK.
And is there
anything else that--
>> REGINA: That's pretty
much-- that's pretty much it.
>> FORD: OK, so I understand and
I am going to make a commitment
to really try and do a
better job of not doing that.
Now, with the toilet
seat up, there's
even a better way to
go forward with that,
is just to say not only
was the toilet seat up,
but I got up in the
middle of the night
to go to the bathroom.
>> REGINA: I just thought
I should have added that.
>> FORD: And it was dark and my
butt landed in the cold water
and it was really gross.
And I know you didn't mean to
do it, but it was really awful.
>> REGINA: That is
the other part of it.
It occurred to me
after we wrapped it.
Yes, absolutely.
>> FORD: Yes, so the Imago
Dialogue's on page 255.
It's a really good thing to
have because communication's
different for everybody.
So we need-- I need to know that
I-- that I heard what you said
and that you knowledge
that I got it.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: So we can
move to the next step.
>> REGINA: Right.
OK, now, you say part
of this whole journey
is once those
chemicals have worn off
and you're in the
reality soup of it all
and you're making your choice
and decisions day by day,
and you're really
attempting to listen,
to be as good a potential
mirror as you can
for the other person, and so
forth, the chemicals still
may be gone.
And then, a lot of times, other
aspects of the relationship,
the juicier parts, and maybe the
sexuality, starts dying back.
And in the book, you're
talking about the importance
of recreating
oxytocin production.
Let's talk about that.
>> FORD: So the
first piece of this,
this is particularly
important for women,
is that we do too much.
So we're working, and
we're raising kids,
and we're taking care
of aging parents,
and there's financial stresses,
and we're giving, giving,
giving, and we're
stressed to the max.
And then we get bitchy because
we're stressed to the max
and we have nothing
else to give.
So the place that
we need to start
is to become what I
call a pleasure pig.
You need to put
yourself first and you
need to rebuild your
oxytocin levels.
Oxytocin is called the
super glue of love.
And there's fast, easy,
cheap ways to do this.
So the fastest way is to go get
a 20 second hug from somebody.
That rebuilds oxytocin.
You can get a
manicure, a pedicure.
Get your hair done, get a
massage, get a foot rub.
Go have drinks with
your girlfriends.
Tell somebody you love them.
Pet your dog, pet your cat.
All of these things
rebuild oxytocin.
>> REGINA: But take
responsibility for it yourself.
>> FORD: Every day.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: When you make your to
do list, put, number one item,
pleasure today.
So, sometimes,
like twice a week,
I go get a 30 minute foot rub.
And I have this woman who
charges me a dollar a minute.
It's perfect.
On days when I'm too busy or I
don't want to spend any money,
I go to my playlist
and I listen to Andrea
Bocelli sing "The Prayer"
for four and a half minutes.
Fills me up with oxytocin.
Now, for men, who also get
stressed out, what they need
to do is rebuild testosterone.
So they can do that by
hanging out with the guys--
>> REGINA: Watching
a game on TV.
>> FORD: Watching sports.
>> REGINA: Yeah, exactly.
>> FORD: It's the
fastest way for most men.
Chopping wood, playing
sports, all of those things
rebuild testosterone.
So in order for
us to keep giving,
we have to fill
ourselves back up.
So if you're committed to
rebuilding your relationship,
first you have to fill up
your own love reservoir.
And that's self-love.
And so many people
see this as selfish,
but the truth is it's selfless.
You will have more to give when
you fill yourself up first.
>> REGINA: Absolutely.
So-- and then, finally,
one other thing, because we
are about out of time.
And that is vulnerability.
This whole thing of
vulnerability and fear,
we're afraid of
being vulnerable.
And just give us a
quick peek at what
that means to allow ourselves to
be vulnerable with one another.
>> FORD: Yeah.
So you and I are together.
We've just had this fight.
You've said some really
un-nice things to me.
And I could scream and yell
back or I could say, wow,
I'm feeling so hurt right now.
I can't believe that I am
on the verge of hysteria.
And I know you didn't mean
to hurt me this deeply,
but I need to take a few minutes
and pull myself together.
And let's talk in a half hour.
That's being really
vulnerable and that's
taking responsibility
for your own feelings.
And it's hard to do.
It's much easier to lash out.
>> REGINA: Right.
>> FORD: But you have to say
what's true for you from an "I"
place and how it is for you,
as opposed to accusing them.
>> REGINA: And let
yourself be seen.
>> FORD: Yes.
Yeah.
>> REGINA: And we're so often
trying to position ourselves
and hide who we are from one
another in life in general
by putting the
best face forward.
Yeah.
So there's no room for that
in an intimate relationship.
>> FORD: No.
>> REGINA: Final words?
Quickly.
>> FORD: Yeah, the thing I would
say that I know for sure is
that if you're with somebody
that you once believed was
your soulmate, I would encourage
you to give it six months
of taking baby steps and just
doing a few things that are
in ""Turn Your Mate
Into Your Soulmate"
to see if you can reignite
and reenvision the one that
you're with.
>> REGINA: Very good.
Well, very useful information,
very-- a fun journey with you.
Thank you so much.
>> FORD: Thank you.
>> REGINA: I hope this
conversation has been useful
for those of you in relationship
or considering entering one,
lots of wisdom here.
It's the small things
and the acts of kindness.
Until next time, thank you for
joining us here on Open Minds.
[THEME MUSIC]